{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\listtable 
{\list\listhybrid
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc2\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc1\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc4\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc3\leveljc0\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc1\levelstartat1{\leveltext\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\jclisttab\tx0}\listid1 }}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs32\lang9 101 Myths and Arguments against Feminism and how to tackle them\par
this article provides the tools for any pakistani feminist to counter arguments hurled at the slightest mention of women's rights. so you can argue back confidently and be more confident in your feminism.\par
why is pakistani feminism so unpopular?\par
\b0\fs28 because of fundamental beleives \b\fs32\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 1. \b0\fs28 You don't know what you are talking about! OR She's just a kid so she doesnt know (stop patronising girls)\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}feminists have an inner complex of being less than a man\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}2. a womans body is a sacred jewel, which must be hidden from theives!\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}3. motherhood is a womans single biggest acheivement. \par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}4. a mans career is more important as he has to feed the family. women dont.\par
{\pntext\f0 6.\tab}5. a woman in the workplace has the same rights and respect as their male colleagues\par
{\pntext\f0 7.\tab}nother variation of this would be, a man does the job better than a woman\par
{\pntext\f0 8.\tab}6. feminism is man-hating\par
{\pntext\f0 9.\tab}7. aurat aurat ki dushman!!!\par
{\pntext\f0 10.\tab}8. women are emotionally and intellectually weaker than men\par
{\pntext\f0 11.\tab}9. women are incapable of doing male-oriented tasks\par
{\pntext\f0 12.\tab}a mother is more responsible in parenthood than the father, she must sacrifice her career for the child's upbringing\par
{\pntext\f0 13.\tab}pakistani feminism is western imported mafia\par
{\pntext\f0 14.\tab}westerm feminist movement is affecting motherhood\par
{\pntext\f0 15.\tab}the way a woman dresses is responsible for rape cases, and harrasment\par
{\pntext\f0 16.\tab}a court kacheris is an unsuitable place for a woman\par
{\pntext\f0 17.\tab}according to islam, a woman must be a housewive and attend to her husband\par
{\pntext\f0 18.\tab}according to islam, a woman must not earn as that is a mans job\par
{\pntext\f0 19.\tab}according to islam, a woman is due 25% of her heritage because what her husband owns is hers. (these norms are specifically designed to make women less powerful)\par
{\pntext\f0 20.\tab}a woman mustnt be given too much freedom\par
{\pntext\f0 21.\tab}feminism is promoting fahashi\par
{\pntext\f0 22.\tab}mera jism meri merzi!!\par
{\pntext\f0 23.\tab}feminists are just a bunch of angry women who weep for not being as succesful or powerful as men\par
{\pntext\f0 24.\tab}feminists want to be a man \par
{\pntext\f0 25.\tab}it is important for a family to have a head, and it is important for the head to be a patriarch.\par
{\pntext\f0 26.\tab}aurat bohat bari fitna hai\par
{\pntext\f0 27.\tab}female-equivalent term for chauvinist\par
{\pntext\f0 28.\tab}feminism is opposed to marraige and motherhood\par
{\pntext\f0 29.\tab}feminists are only women\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 30.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx5716 in order to be a feminist, you have to be a tomboy, no nice shoes, dresses, hairstyles, and heels. they shouldnt or couldnt or dont care about how they look.\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 31.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Feminists believe that women\u146?s actions are above criticism and can always be excused because of the discrimination they have suffered. Therefore they never have to take responsibility for their behaviour.\par
{\pntext\f0 32.\tab}if a man harrases a woman, hes an ass, but if a woman does, she is a feminist or very brave.\par
{\pntext\f0 33.\tab}all men are dogs, or evil and all women are avenging angels\par
{\pntext\f0 34.\tab}just becuase a woman belongs to a higher social class or economic class than a man, doesnt mean equality is acheived.\par
{\pntext\f0 35.\tab}There is no more need for feminism: women have the vote, they have jobs. The goals have been met.\par
{\pntext\f0 36.\tab}feminism is just a womans way to accomplish nothing and blame inequality for their failure.\par
{\pntext\f0 37.\tab}women are better than men (feminism evokes equality)\par
{\pntext\f0 38.\tab}poeple with certain beliefs are feminists, and feminists are pro-choice\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 39.\tab}\fs28 dont like the color pink\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 40.\tab}\fs28 all masculinity is toxic (men written by women)\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 41.\tab}\fs28 tearing down traditional feminity\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 42.\tab}\fs28 feminists stay as splinters, angry, bitter, like cats\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 43.\tab}\fs28 a man deserves more pay as he has a family to feed.\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 44.\tab}\fs28 feminism is reverse sexism\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 45.\tab}\fs28 feminsim ignores mens issues and only forwards female rights\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 46.\tab}\fs28 women cant be sexist\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 47.\tab}\fs28 feminists cant be sexist\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 48.\tab}\fs28 think all men are rapist\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 49.\tab}\fs28 feminism, and women being too strong is increasing divorce rates and single parenthood\fs22\par
{\pntext\f0 50.\tab}\fs28 i dont think men and women are the same\fs22  (thats okay. feminism is not about men and women being the absolute same. its about the both of them being free to make their decisions as they wish without any unnessary societal pressure. Feminism fights for a world where anyone is free to be as they like without being shamed or abused for their choices.)\par
{\pntext\f0 51.\tab}FEMINIST WOMEN ARE NOT FEMININE (SOFT): Often several scary notions persist in society about feminist women such as they cannot be modest, caring, fun-loving and cheerful. Rather, they are aggressive and dominating in nature as they strive to establish their rights. This is a complete myth. Feminists do not necessarily lack sense of humour. They believe in proper rationale.\par
{\pntext\f0 52.\tab}At the same time, this is perceived that feminist women dress like men, also they do not wear traditional dresses or ornaments. In reality, feminists do not impose the patriarchic society to decide what women should wear. They promote that choice of dress and ornament are the personal choices of women.\par
{\pntext\f0 53.\tab}FEMINIST WOMEN CANNOT BE HOMEMAKERS: Predominant notion about feminism is that feminism deters women from being homemakers. Whereas the fact is that feminism do not contradict the notion of being homemakers, neither it forces women for gaining economic independence. Hence, feminism emphasises the choice of freedom of women so that society should not force any woman to be a homemaker or a service holder.\par
{\pntext\f0 54.\tab}Another misunderstanding about feminist women is that they hate men and they do not believe in marriage. In reality, feminism advocates against the discriminative perception of society or parents between the marriage of daughters and that of sons. Thus, feminism does not support that 'tender age is appropriate for girls to be married' and 'there is no age of marriage for men'.\par
{\pntext\f0 55.\tab}Also, getting divorced or changing male partners are perceived as negative characteristics of feminism.  The fact is that feminism is not related to advocating for separation or divorce. Rather, feminists promote the rights of women for raising their voice against any sort of oppression.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 objectives: \par

\pard 
{\listtext\f0 1.\tab}\ls1\ilvl8\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Defining feminism (basically)\par
{\listtext\f0 2.\tab}Why do some Pakistanis hate feminism\par
{\listtext\f0 3.\tab}54 myths about feminism and ways to tackle sexist statements\par
{\listtext\f0 4.\tab}gender equality is not sameness of the sexes, but rather both being willing and free to make choices that define their individual femininity, masculinity, or any other sexuality however they like without being abused or shamed for it. \par
{\listtext\f0 5.\tab}aurat march and taliban and conspiracies\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
}
 