{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs40\lang9 The Reluctant Fundamentalist: Essay (Eng Lit #1)\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22 After thinking about a matter of two weeks, i came to the outcome that i, no matter how chique and clichete i claim to be, am not very well aqauinted with the culture of my country. \par

\pard\ri26\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx8421\tx8679\tx9386 A few months back, as I studied quantum physics, and the theory of agnotism (beleif that there may or may not be a god), I wondered that truly if no god existed than how futile is humanity's efforts to preserve their status of being divided up in tribes, and races, colors and languages, countries and continents. if humanity were nothing but a big cosmic accident, why does it matter if i am a pakistani and a friend of mine egyptian. we are all but lost, in this big space comprising of nothing, trying to pursue this short lifespan with interests and passions, career or love. does it really matter how since the past 75 years, pakistanis have every year on a specific blown horns, cracked fireworks, cut green adn white cakes, or sung songs while parades resume. does it have any more worth than a few hours or just a few minutes worth of spiritual or physical excitement, a moment to mesmerise with friends and families, only to reminiscne later in the dauntness of older age? \par
that brought me to another question. is anything worth it at all?\par
following those days involving not only a stressful period of appearing for my igcses or the day by day increasing environment of tension of the dysfunction of my family and frailings of loved ones, it induced a depression. and though people older or with much realer stress or problems like stagnant economy that can make them lose theirr jobs, which in return might affect the well beings of their families, because i thought of that too, or them being in midlife crisis. \par
and now being in a relatively alot better place, i console myself in the beleif that just because someone else might have realer problems than me, they dont invalidate or belittle mine in the least. \par
anyway, while i wondered on the concept of a single and beloved nationality, i came to a feel good logic to it. while in a part conversation with an older muse who's tail on love for nation and importance for language or holding on to some aspect of cultural identity for a persons national self esteem didnt make me realise as intended on the self esteem part. but what i did entail was this: if all of humanity believed that we were all but one cosmic accident, a fault in the stars, then everyone would be the same. everyone with the same goals, same language, perhaps same accents, or the way everyone dresses, or the way in which one holds oneself. if history and culture were not important, we would rule out diversity from earth. close your eyes and imagine a world where no matter where you went you only found mago trees. i love mangoes. and the notion of being among a mirade of mango trees, surrounded by its sweet yellow color which compliments the green leaves and brown persona of the forest, by its blissful smell. but after a few nights of wandering in my imaginary mango forest, i became tired. still i forced myself to wander a little furthur, in search of what i dont know. \par
after a couple of weeks, i realised i was lost. i neededchange. and though the first blissful magoes made my heart skip two beats, i longed for the scent of freshly cut apples that my mother in my endearing single digit years cut for me when i felt down and sad, probably towards of the end of summer or the start of karachi's hot waves of springs. i longed for the bananas shaped like ship anchors we used to play with when we were carefree. and it was not only fruits i longed for, my mind wandered to taste dark chocolate on my tongue once again, or or even some kareles for god sake!\par
i craved diversity. and diversity is preserved in cultures, and languages, and old age \ul\b\i harmless \ulnone\b0\i0 traditions like whole hearted and banqueted welcomes of guests in punjab plains, or the russians inability to smile or laugh when it is not genuine, or the canadians to be jolly and smiley and nice, and the americans to suspect anyone they might persecive as terrorists. the swag wala swagat while adjoining both hands by indians, and the belly dancing of arabs, or the tranquil peace and scenic beautiy that beliongs to highlanders in scotland. \par
and what might all i have said above relate to national identity and pride. well, formation of nations help preserve those individual cultures and tranditions. that might be a slightly controversial opinoon since some people might argue why in fact countries like our very own might possess multiple and richly cultured people or shall i say civilizations. thats quite true. i have said before that when pakistan waas created, it was actually the accumulation of five individual civilisations/identies/nations whatever you may choose to call them. and within this period of 75 years, we reduced those cultures or nations to a single nation that can only be defined by a single minded aproach to living. and ofcourse if you do that, merge cross cultures into a single identity, you thus lay the hundsight of what became of pakistan and multiple other nations too (eg India, britain in its colonisation) etc. but the only exampole i can give you of is of none other than that of the united states. and even though the seeminly progressing country is dominated by white males, the country to my knowledge has done quite well in itsefforts to recognise on an international and national level theri underrepresented communities, or various cultures thatmight be a mart of the mainstream american cultural suburban stereotype. and the movement for cultural recognition was not put forth by any other but part-american citizens say cuban-american who fled cuba in the 60s castro era, or mexican-americans fleeing the corruption and bloodshed in their own country, or the african-americans with historical ancestry related to the great migration of the 20s. these citizens not only strived to gain advantage from relatively better acedemic institutions than found in their own countries or employments from the advancing firms, but also forwarded their own cultures through remaining in touch with their cultural languages and practises. for example the traditional quincerneras latinas have to celebrate them becoming young women, or black slang, and musical heritage (r&b). \par
thus america is on a good road to embracing diversity (at least on the outside if not in natively dominated institutions). \par
thus, in my recollection and realisation of this fact, I have embarked on my own journey to aquaint with my own culture and ancestral heritage with deep conversations with the familial elderly on their immigration journeys from an era of one of the world's greatest migration and racial violence in history. that also meant reading literature produced by the fragments of our very own authors' imaginations and also aquiesing through some of iqbal, manto and faiz works, \ul\b\i again\ulnone\b0\i0 . I have tirelessly gone over previous recordings i made in 2020 lockdown with my grandparents of discussions of their childhood, migration and family. i am currently researching on my family biological tree, and what ive realised is, with every known ancester, the tree gets igger and bigger. \par
as i am digging deeper, the more i come to the realisation of prevailing sexist and patriarchal norms that are dismissive to even the idea of me having a career to say the least. such norms that try to take ownership of certain people ie women. it reminded me of why I distanced culturally in the first place, some beleifs were sometimes more than untolerable.\par
as ive said aboive, being culturally diverse is to hold on to our collecive idiosyncrasies as a magnitude of people of a certain class or location and to get pleasure in sharing \ul\b\i harmless \ulnone\b0\i0 and \ul\b\i pleasant \ulnone\b0\i0 traditions (examples above too). there is nothing harmless or pleasant about toxic masculinity, justification of parental or spousal abuse, expected submissive female behaviour, and the alienism of subjects like education, climate change, and feminism. for me, culturally aquainted means being confident in \b my \b0 language (urdu), knowledge of ancestry (where i come from and how my family has evolved from those times with those people), knowledge of country, maybe some rawaj like welcoming of guests with granduer and open heartedness or sheer tranquility in a cup of tea, and being well verse in literature. \b Good \b0 Literature.  \par
taking a break from my usual criminal reads, i settled after a lot consideration on the reluctant fundamentalist. in all honestly, it actually took me an entire week to just select a novel published by a pakistani author. any book I attempted to find in urdu was either a traditional and conventional romance novels with submissive, brittle, poor heroines or damsels in distresses, and controlling, brawny, rich heroes who's hearts are captured by the former laterals. or they were about lost men or women in the clutched of worldly luxeries on their way to find religion. none of them was particularly enticing and if i wanted any of the above plots, i wouldve just turnedthe goddamn tv on and watch those mind-numbing tv serials with plots so same that if two series were virtually compared, you would find no difference. but the decline of pakistani television literature is another topic for another day. \par
anyway, any interesting novels ranked by reliable book ranking websites were too just mere mirrors from american spy culture, like Ghazi or \{\}. but there was one who's name caught the eye. \par
The Reluctant Fundamentalist can be misleading in its name. I was definitely misled. For me a reluctant fundamentalist would be person quite enjoyed or enticed by morals or principles that are quite plainly put as 'western' like womens rights, maybe someone prone to the american lifestyle. and in realising their cultural ignorance, or appropriately put as lack of a stable core or identity, a person who wants to recommit to their fundamental or desi or very pakistani lifestyle and culture. \par
but it was far from it. this book was about the life and inner battles of a fictional changez of lahore who upon entering princeton on a full scholarship gets into one of New Yorks most prestigious financial firms of the time. joined as a trainee initially, changez graduated and ranks number 1 in the training program and is off to the best start with his career at underwood sampson at just age 22. \par
underwood samson was a valueing firm with a single guiding principle -- single minded attention to financial detail to determine an assets value. its formula to do that, that is, calculate the worth of an asset so it can be bought or sold or continued was so accurate that it made underwood samson one of the modt presiigous financial firmsof new york. \par
but with changez, the thrillers of his new job and this new endeavour was only partially appealing. he had fallen in love with a 'beautiful and brittle' woman (as is mentioned only so many times) named Erica. \par
Now here it comes. the book gets smutty with that and I beleive about forty percent of this novel would be erica's disillusionment and grief over the death of her childhood sweatheart chris. ill just say this. most pakistani men prefer fragile disillusioned women, not to mention they should be beautiful in their mental illness or incapablity to support themselves emotionally, and this is exactly the kind of toxic romance that sells in our local film, tv, and book industries. what i honestly think is that in order to satisfy their egoes and feel good abotu themselves, paki men visualise the most hideous scenarios in which they their lovers are mentally off balance so whatever picture they try to paint as in succesful career or intelligence, they usually take the higher hand by atleast being emotionally stable while portraying themselves as modern people. \par
as i started reading the novel, i found it confusing. after rereading the first two pages multiple times, i understood that the entire story is basically changez telling a mysterious, unnamed, forign or american, man in lahore on a dhabba* who's very susceptible of his surroundings and ordinary poeple like their table waiter, or rickshaw drivers. this man is supposedly a guest of changez, and changez in his unending monologue not only describes the behaviour of the man opposite him (which kind of sounds like an uncle who wouldnt stop patronising you for the most mundane of things), but also retails on his entire 4 and a half years in america as a princeton student, graduate and employee in underwood samson. \par
perhaps it was to demostrate the foreign paranoia against ordinary pakistanis being jihadist and terrorists and how futile it is. \par
\par
}
 